# Verification guidance

This document describes

- what authors should check before providing data and code to journals
- what verifier teams should check for in the data and code provided to them for the purpose of verification

## Checklist

- review the README file
  - [ ] validate the listed contents (manifest) of the data submission against the actual contents of the data submission ([see reference README](soon)). Is information missing? 
  - [ ] Also cross-check against the data section of the manuscript
  - [ ] Create a list of all data sets referenced or provided
  - [ ] Create a list of all tables, figures, and in-text numbers from the manuscript (excludes the online appendix)
- for each listed data source, 
  - verify information about the data
    - [ ] identify that the data set has a clear name
    - [ ] verify [licensing and access information](Requested_information_data.md). Is the original data accessible to researchers other than the author (license)? Does the author have the rights to redistribute the data (if not holder of the copyright)? For data generated by the author, is a license provided?
    - [ ] Is the data cited in the manuscript? In the README?
  - verify information in the data
    - [ ] are all variables labeled (Stata) or is information on each variable provided (codebook)?
    - [ ] if the data are not provided (confidential data), are summary statistics on the data provided (in the manuscript, as part of the archive)?
    - [ ] if the data ARE provided, are there any potentially sensitive data on the dataset? Some of the following may be OK if adequately described in the README and/or the manuscript data section
      - [ ] No names of people
      - [ ] No social security numbers, credit card numbers, etc.
      - [ ] No addresses or precise geo-locations (GPS numbers) 
- for each listed table, figure, in-text number
  - [ ] can you identify the piece of code responsible for generating that number or figure
  - [ ] does the code produce an identifiable output that contains those numbers or figures? 
- conduct a code verification, if data is available
  - [ ] create a directory containing only the programs and data provided
  - [ ] if not already contained within the existing code, create a config file ([sample Stata config file](https://gist.github.com/larsvilhuber/6bcf4ff820285a1f1b9cfff2c81ca02b), and call it from all to-be-run programs
  - [ ] install all identified requirements 
  - [ ] run all code as per instructions in the README or the code
  - [ ] identify all error messages
  - [ ] identify all outputs as per the README and the list of tables/figures/in-text numbers
  - [ ] compare the output to the tables/figures/numbers in the manuscript.

